the hurdles that welcome I was going to
waffle about how Z makes it difficult to
hit the record button you did it
it's not like one of those things that
moves the button around as you move your
mouse over so that's fine cool I can see
myself amazing we are turbulent internet
okay welcome everyone to the okay
welcome everyone to the ipfs weekly cool
for Monday the 2nd of September 2019
this is going to be fun I am making
brain I am your host for all of
September having taken over from the
venerable
a crate job cool so we have yeah we have
some announcements we have one
announcement and then we have a super
interesting talk from top of hours of
quorum control very much looking forward
to that so the one announcement is a
cool for help a cry for help
to create a next-generation navigation
system for docs to ipfs die oh that
would be good if you are interested in
that get involved we need your help
those can be a video call the URL is in
the docs so I'm not going to read it out
it's on this it's September from 5:00
p.m. to 6:30 UTC cool ok cool great with
that I'm going to pass it over to topper
and he can tell us all about top hey
thanks hi everyone looking for a small
group here so
one feel her to interrupt me and to have
a little bit of a cold so if I said
something you don't understand just also
interrupt me and say what did you say
and I'll repeat it I think what I'm
gonna do is give a little background I
have a couple of like short slides I'm
not just what Tupelo is and then I'm
gonna try and concentrate most of it on
actually you know against all the demo
God's doing a live demo here against our
test net and because I think that will
help illustrate some of the more
particle labs specific stuff the IP on
the and let p2p and molecular stuff I
think more than more than the slides
well just seeing things change as always
makes that kind of thing click for me so
with that I will start there and I need
to share my screen or else we won't be
able to see it
I read and you're hovering over my
present but everyone can see introducing
a to below here yeah okay so I'm top of
hours on the CEO of quorum control which
is a for-profit company building an open
and permissionless tupelo network which
is a new layer one DLT platform that is
purpose-built for real world objects and
applications as opposed to finance and
decentralized finance and I think to
illustrate that it helps to talk a
little bit about existing tech here and
I'm gonna go kind of quickly through
this thing stuff so feel free of those
know if there's questions and I will
back up and answer those but I think
it's interesting to talk about to blow
in comparison to an existing tech and
the way almost every current blockchain
works is that you know there's a chain
of blocks right and inside of that block
every transaction is put into an order
right so there's transaction a
transaction B transaction C and those
that put into order by Bitcoin that
would be miners and some other thing
that would be valid interest and they do
a lot of work to make to try and be fair
about putting those transactions into
order and they have to do a lot of work
in total ordering which you know sure
there's a lot of developers here total
ordering is a really hard problem in
decentralized systems and so they spend
a lot of effort to make that happen and
the reason why they have to do that
usually is because of what's called the
double spend problem in traditional DLT
which means that you know if alice is
paying Bob and Alice is also trying to
pay Carol you need to see which one of
those transactions goes first to see
whether Bob whether Alice paid Bob or
whether Alice paid Carol right and so
they they spent a lot of work just to
make sure that those transactions happen
in the correct order so that Alice can't
ever spend more than one you know more
than her balance of tokens and that both
by only one of Bob or Carol get paid and
that's now the reason why they started
out doing this whole tour global total
ordering
but then we started to do with the LT is
to put all sorts of other crazy crazy
stuff on it this is a picture of a
weather station right and so what we you
know some people have started to weather
data into blockchains
and we the thing is that the underlying
system goes through all the same process
even with this weather data right so not
only is it doing the order of the
weather data but it's also putting Alice
and Bob's transactions in order with the
weather data right so this is like
totally unnecessary work for the system
to do no one cares whether the weather
that came before Alice's payment or
after Alice's payment and additionally
lot teams are awesome at keeping data in
perpetuity but they also have to keep
data in perpetuity so all this weather
data that were or whatever kind of data
that's in the blockchain is kept around
forever which I think at the time of
creation
you know maybe made sense for an
auditable blockchain for specifically
for money but when you start talking
about applications it becomes a
different kind of concern it's like what
this data should exist forever in some
cases it should but it's not always
right the weather data every five
seconds doesn't need to be kept
globally on 25,000 repeaters forever and
ever and you know I kind of ran into
these problems myself when I was trying
to build in InfoSec company which was
the sort of core control original flavor
as I say to my team which was a security
company and I was trying to anchor trust
from a any public watching to a
corporate set of security rules and what
I just realized was that for of a
business it was just really not going to
work and I was looking at everything
this is back in 2016 so you know the
choices were more limited but there was
still a lot there's the big coin and the
theory mm and what's now called Nano
which is the title is called brave lakhs
and there's all these other esoteric
high speed ones and what I realize is
that almost all of them weren't gonna
work none of them were gonna work for
the business for a variety of reasons
one all the transactions were costly and
costly and like the worst possible way
to write like variable cost sometimes
they cost a penny and sometimes they
cost $40 or $100
it's when you're trying to bake that
into the cost of running an application
that becomes really hard
also inflexible I'm in some cases like
Bitcoin it's very inflexible but in
other cases too you're always writing
smart contracts and the problem with
smart contracts are they're great in
some certain cases and are in fact
necessary in some certain cases but in
the 90% case people are rewriting the
same thing over and over again here's
this object there's some data about that
object here's who owns the object and
that's about it and so when you're
talking about any kind of real-world
application like that whether data like
a supply chain like any kind of track
and trace system even stuff like crypto
kitties all of this stuff is really just
a crud application that people are
writing complex secure smart contracts
for and then the unscalable is the one
we all know and love right it's like
seven transactions a second and the
electricity consumption of I don't even
know what it's up to the Ireland or
something like that nowadays
and so Tupelo is it's pretty different
it models each individual object in the
state of structure which I'll get into
more detail in a second called a chain
tree and those objects are completely
separate from all the other objects in
the system they the chain tree is a
combination of a block chain and a tree
of current state all summed up into a
single IP LD object so localized in sort
of single tips and what that gives you
is that you have the tree of current
state and the plus the history of all
changes to that to that data structure
in containing the single data structure
and it doesn't have to interact with any
other chain trees have its own state
it'd be verifiable and because it we can
define tuple it defines some certain
transactions you can take on those chain
trees which I'll get to in a second
again but basically they provides the
ability to set data set who owns this
chain tree and then do some some token
work on that chain tree which again I'll
get into in a second but the big deal
with having individual objects modeled
separately
is that the consensus algorithm can be
much simpler and much faster also
transactions can be happen
asynchronously so when a chit when a
transaction happens on one chain tree we
don't have to wait for a block we don't
have to wait for transactions and three
other chain trees to happen we can deal
with that single transaction which again
speeds up the whole process and doesn't
have unnecessary work and so yeah we
have a new chain tree a new data
structure called a chain tree we have
our own consensus algorithm which is I
mean it's a it's not entirely our own
it's based on other people's good work I
wouldn't want to sit here and say that
we developed completely our own
consensus out there but what we were
able to do is simplify BFG proposals
down to lowering message complexity and
and also having this like asynchronous
ability here and because of IP LD we
have this other cool thing which is that
the signers which is like our version of
validators don't actually need to keep
the history of the blockchain around
what they do is they keep a a basically
a hash table of a ID of the chain tree
and its current tip and so what that
means though is that when the next
transaction comes in the chain tree can
pass back in any relevant state that is
needed for that transaction so that can
be a little complicated so it's not me
that doesn't make sense to anybody but
is the signers have only to and if you
want to do something that requires state
you can pass back in that state and
because the signers have the tip they
can verify that the data you're passing
back in is there there previously in the
world
so yeah this cool thing where signers do
very little work and store a very little
data to do a global consensus and then
tuple is not a smart contract platform
but you can end up doing some extremely
complicated applications on because of
these simple transactions of set data
actually set data set ownership
established token Minto consent oak and
receive
allows you to do all sorts of real-world
use cases all sorts of like digital use
cases with that set data and set
ownership and then all sorts of kind of
like token economy thing we expect from
our DLT with the with the token
transactions so you know as I said to
below can consider each transaction that
is coming in in in isolation and what
that ends up being is that the whole
thing is faster the because also that
their signers are done having to keep a
ton of old stayed around the
transactions can be cheaper it's also
it's proof of stake not for for work so
the center's actually don't do a ton of
work on this transaction and so they can
be modeled as like super cheap
transactions for four signers could
break even on and because there's no
smart contracts and it feels a lot more
like using an API you know Minna
Scrabble dive in a little more teeth on
that what you're actually doing is
sending a message to the peer to peer
like pub/sub network but from a
programming language it feels like
you're like calling an api and getting
that tip back like the signed tip of
your chain tree which I'll show you in
the in actual code in a second this is
what a kind of a conceptual view of a
chain tree there's the route which
points to a chain and a tree this one on
the Left would probably be better off
horizontal but it's like you know it's
abnormal block chain there's the last
lock and it goes out to the first block
and the tree points to a user set of all
data section whatever thing user can do
whatever it wants and this under to
underscore Tupelo section where changes
are the whole thing is a finite state
machine this has been particularly as
limited rules the users can arbitrarily
change those are underscore Tupelo
because it has to do with the tokens and
the ownership so they have to take
specific transactions on this like on
this underscore Tupelo section
yeah so train trees are finite state
machines and they transition from one
state to another so from an IPL DSP for
one tip to another by using a
transaction and will actually by
appending a block to the chain section
which is a list of transactions you play
those transactions go the chain tree you
get a new tip and then the signers on
the network sign that tip and then the
world can know what the new state of
their chain tree is so I already went
through these and I can demo now but
I'll pause there there any questions
that people have right now
look so we um
we have a new SDK which is our to
blossom SDK which is it's kind of cool
it's it's actually assisting a uses I
think like all of go and all of
JavaScript of protocol labs the p2p and
and IP LT so be rather than having to
redo how the transactions happen in
JavaScript we have a Lawson file
generator from go and go also those
stuff like walk the hash array Maps tree
but yeah and then but then uses
JavaScript to do stuff like do the block
service and block service and the pub
sub and we'll actual impede a Pinot does
all stays in JavaScript land so using
that we have also this Explorer and
wallet and I'll show you in a second
can everyone read this on my screen here
what yes okay we can see it's pretty
easy so this we get a community which is
a layer on top of to blow they actual a
consensus algorithm so to blow that
provides some things for the pub sub
Network and also for some storage for
that public members we run a community
member now this community layer is
decentralized like email as opposed to
DLT and like anyone can run one of these
nodes where to blow itself is a pretty
stake system working off the state coins
and become signers a key is what owns a
chain tree and then and I change me that
Tupelo doesn't know about is owned by
the first key that creates it that's
what creates this D ID of it
decentralized identifier and so in this
example what we're gonna do is we're
gonna create a key and we're gonna
create a trading card so a chain tree
that represents a trading card we're
passing in a block service just the
regular ipfs block service and its key I
know C we're setting the property of the
trading card ID and then we're gonna
make a block so this play transactions
creates a block on the trading card tree
we're gonna do three set training set
data transactions so we're setting slash
series to that slash item two number 48
here and slash condition to mint
condition there are three community
members we're just waiting for those to
update then we get the ID again and then
we go back to to glow and get the new
tip as known by the assigning members
and we'll see that new tip here
those are assertions which won't show up
and we'll see here successfully that
mustard so assuming that everything goes
well
and you'll see and this is actually
running against our real test net here -
not against the local of mine so you can
see the speed and that kind of thing and
this is finality - it's not
probabilistic this happened I can't
can't be undone and you'll see the new
tip carver successfully registered so we
take the D ID and if we go back to this
also I should point out so this app that
we're gonna use here that 3o c is for
yeah okay so that's this one check yep
okay this app has no server
I mean it's running on github io so I
guess that is a server but I mean
there's no like back inside it's all
front-end and watch them running in the
browser here and so this is a Machane
straight Explorer so you can see here's
the D ID of the change we made and the
tree we can click into it tree data and
here's the item series and condition
that we set here and also see the the
chain side is not quite as pretty but
quick clicks the chain we can go to the
end this is a we did a signature from
the from Alice and then the you know a
list of transactions which there were
three of them
and you can see like the set data
payload which is the path and the value
which is a buffer here and those were
passed in in order to set the chain of
the chain of the chain traits another
just quick one here will do ownership
transfer so with this one we do we get
the community we get analysis key also
it gets a training part of our own Bob
gets a key Bob gets an address and then
Alice immediately the first transaction
is to change the owner of the trading
card over to Bob and so we'll do that
but you know what that doesn't tell us
which kind of is so that's not very
helpful let's do that and then we'll
just add a trading card okay we'll go
back here do that again this is a new
trading card I'm not changing the
different one so okay so we go here and
we here okay let me go to the tree with
this one and now I see this one has the
underscore two below that I was talking
about before authentications and this is
now this is Bob's address and so only
only Bob whose key matches this address
they make any changes to this chain tree
in the world and tokens quick look at
the code here tokens we're gonna create
a chain tree Alice's and Bob's and we
will do make sure we could ID this time
around okay and then well we're gonna
each chain tree convinced it's only
tokens and it has sort of human readable
names or arbitrary names inside of the
chain trade unique to that change like
that's be unique within the chain tree
but then the the top full token name is
the full chain treaty ID : token which
means you know so that allows you to do
kind of interesting things like if you
have a piece of artwork represented by a
chain tree you could have that those
tokens be shares
other things you can do with them is
like usage tokens and like we actually
have a scooter company building and
they're gonna use these tokens to
represent like you're allowed to ride on
a scooter that kind of thing
excuse me so then you establish the
token and the reason why you're
established is so that you can have a
maximum amount ever created that's the
only monetary policy we currently
support but looking at with others and
then you mint so this is gonna mint one
token and then it sends it over to Bob
and then Bob does a receive token and
that's that actually is one difference
because we don't know this total
ordering we do need to establish a
relationship between send and receive
and so we have a send transaction that
happens and you get a receipt of that
and then you give it to the next person
and they call it they they will receive
transaction and so it's extend that off
chain some of the payload and then a
receive transaction and what that does
is establishes an order between two
transactions that do actually need that
order but only but only between those
two so let's go see tokens
and we can go and three
tokens and you can see that there's this
Alice token here now
and I know we're coming up quickly on
time here so I'll just do a quick the
this is like a wallet representation of
that same thing basically different
chain tree than we're working with but
you can see you can establish token at
the MS Koken will make it so that
there's only how many people around here
and ever to be allowed after refresh
right now UI is not perfect in all of us
but now there's IPS token with a max of
10 we can mint five of them and now
there's a balance of five and we could
send them to someone with a D ID and all
that is happening in the same systems
that you saw so I think that's my my
quick overview there we use would be to
be underneath observe it's a separate
network up for my PFS only because of
the ipfs DHT it's too hard to have nodes
find each other on there right now
if that was ever fixed we could probably
just have to operate directly on the
ipfs network and the whole I mean
changes are built entirely on the IP LD
right anybody it would be it would be
reinventing the wheel to do them some
with some other different technology and
then we use you know bit swap we don't
actually have a whole ipfs no but we use
the p2p with them with a bit sloppy fat
ass down there to do this kind of like
just changing like for the explorers and
things like that here when I think
that's my overview since we're coming up
on time here so any questions
Oh what
hey thanks uh thanks for this I'm trying
to wrap my head around the way that you
get around the total ordering and and
also like the implications of that is
that is the main like like innovation
decoupling the send and receive so
decoupling the send and receive allows
for the tokens to establish an order
again but for likes things like set data
and stuff there's no 1s you don't have
to have any any tool right think the
transactions happen but yeah the
decoupling the send and receive is for
sure what allows on the receive and to
know like it's like it's like a
cashier's check I don't know how many US
people are on there and Europeans tend
to not know what that is but uh so it's
like if the send token actually deducts
the balance from the chain tree at that
time and then you have this payload
which doesn't need to be kept secure
because it's like written to the
receiver and then we make when the
receiver goes to receive the network is
already signed the same and so you're
establishing this order between the two
of them again that makes sense yeah I
think so and the the main benefit what
is the is the main benefit for removing
a total order does I have to do is like
the work that the validators do exactly
yeah the validators don't have to do
coming to an agreement on order is much
harder than coming to engrave on a
partial order and you can see that in
all of the like you know all of us are
rebuilding stuff that was studying in
the 90s and if you look at that
documentation back then like a lot of
people came up with partial order
systems pretty quickly but coming into
the to the total ordering was much
harder and this allows it just to skip
that whole section which actually means
what we can skip around and impractical
Byzantine default tolerance we can we
can skip the confirm stage okay so this
reaches into the consensus later yeah
the well the consistent layer has to do
less work and therefore it can lose
around all right thank you
yep cool I think we are out of time I'd
like to say thank you very much the
topper for coming on and talking about
two pi was interesting so arrived before
also everyone please fantastic thanks
next week we've got Dirk and he's going
to talk about improvement he's making
two bits what she's going to be super
interesting cool thank you very much
I've making grain this has been the ipfs
weekly cool for the 2nd of September
2019 by